Scrum

Impediments - blockers or circumstances leading to blocking


Yes! Agile is the broader umbrella which Scrum falls under. Agile has four main values and twelve principles. Scrum has its own set of values and principles and provides a lightweight “framework” to help teams become Agile.

Name some other Agile frameworks.

There are other frameworks in addition to Scrum, such as Kanban, Test Driven Development, and Feature Driven Development. Mention frameworks you have followed and provide scenarios.


What is velocity?

Velocity is the average number of points from that past 3 – 4 sprints. It is used to help predict when backlog items will be delivered. 

What type of metrics or reports have you used?

Sprint, release burn-down, and burn-up charts are standard reports. Most companies also want to understand how many stories were committed versus completed per sprint and the number of defects identified post-release to production.


What type of requirements did you use for your teams?

Requirements in Scrum are written as user stories using a standard, “As a ___, I want___ so that I can ___.” As a Scrum Master, you don’t necessarily write user stories, but you would assist the Product Owner to ensure that user stories are written, prioritized, and ready for the sprint.



Explain what is “Velocity”?

“Velocity” is the total effort a team is capable of in a sprint.  The number is obtained by adding all the story points from the last sprint’s stories.  It is a guideline for the team to understand how many stories they can do in a sprint.



Mention what is the difference between Sprint and Iteration in Scrum?

Iteration: It is a terminology used to define single development cycle in general agile methods. It is a common term used in the iterative and Incremental development process.
Sprint: It is used to define one development cycle or iterative step in a specialized agile method referred as Scrum. Sprint is scrum specific, and not all forms of iterations are Sprints.



Explain what velocity in scrum is and how it is measured?

Velocity in a scrum is a measurement of how much the team gets work done in an iterations or sprint. It is measured by

V= Number of total story points / One iteration

Ref: https://career.guru99.com/top-22-scrum-interview-questions/
https://www.simplilearn.com/agile-scrum-master-interview-questions-article